# Metrics-To-Steer-Beginners-Forward-in-LOL
Riot games's League of Legends has a problem retaining new players
League of Legends and is considered to have a steep learning curve. As the League of Legends community ages, it gets progressively harder for new players to get into the game, especially against older players. As a free-to-play game offering zero means to outright buy a competitive edge over another player, most of the game's profits come from skins and other visual accessories.  it needs a large player pool to remain profitable, and new players help the most with this. This project seeks to identify key metrics for new players to focus on, so they do not get lost in a huge wave of information, with simple targets to work towards, making the game more beginner-friendly. After all, how do you improve at a game when you have no idea what to improve on? You could learn all the basic skills to be a 'good' player, and still not know where to focus your efforts in the actual game. Many are concerned with League of Legends' player base being mainly older players who are now in or entering their twenties. For the future, we should focus on new-player experiences to retain profitability. What metrics should new players work on to improve at league of legends instead of quitting out of frustration and loss of direction?


Analysis: I decided to analyze data only from season 15 (January-December 2025) from Riot's API on the European server. These are from real games and are publicly available through Riot Games. This data is across all ranks for the most popular 5v5 game mode, "Summoner's Rift" and features the same number of wins as losses. I analyzed factors such as kills, deaths, and team objectives for their correlation with win rate, as well as the win rate when conditions were met in a given game. A Factor that many players take pride in, champion-mastery level on a champion, was found to have almost 0 correlation with win rate (0.027). However, the highest correlation factor with win rate was not kills but was actually the number of dragons killed by your team that game (correlation of 0.58), signaling that this single factor was affecting win rate the most. The runner-up is the number of barons slain by the team (0.42), both of which are team objectives. Surprisingly, the number of personal deaths in a game (-0.39) had a much stronger correlation than kills did (0.275). Shockingly, with around 68,000 rows of player data for games, dying a low number of times almost skyrocketed the win percentage in the data set. Looking at the data, dying less times alongside focusing on major team objectives (dragons and barons) seems to be the most reliable way to win a game, as opposed to going for many player kills and tons of mastery (which you gain every time you play a champion) on a single champion.


Solution: The tutorial is very short and goes over too little information, only highlighting destroying towers and killing the nexus, the main objective of the game. The importance of Dragons, barons, and other team objectives like rift heralds is non-existent because of this, at least from a new-player perspective. The importance of dying less is also not mentioned at all, which is odd considering it is one of the fastest ways to lose a game of League and leaves your towers and base undefended. These concepts should be incorporated and highlighted in the actual tutorial for the game, as they have a high impact on win rate. Given the information, I see no reason not to include them in the tutorial, or at the very least, highlight their importance so that new players focus on team objectives and the dire consequences of dying and leaving towers undefended. The current state of the tutorial offers no information on either. It does not mention how to perform the role of the 'jungler', which is the role I play as well as the role tasked with securing team objectives in the game. With such a big part of the game missing, it is no wonder people have such a hard time learning the game. 
